You're about to meet the gonoes.
They have served in Bethel for 44 years,
and Brother Gono has served as the coordinator
of the Netherlands branch committee since 1990.
But looking back on their long service for Jehovah,
they set priorities early on that changed the rest of their lives.
I was raised in the truth.
I was baptized when I was about 11 years old,
together with my father.
And we had a very teocratic household.
My parents were very jealous in field service
and they attended all the meetings.
So we had a very good teocratic family,
a very warm nest in which we grew up.
At the age of 20, I was called up for the military service.
I refused, so I had to go to prison.
And I still remember when I came in the south
and when I heard that heavy door close behind me.
And then the key turned a few times in the lock.
It stood there alone.
And in this first day, when I was there,
I was wondering for myself,
why am I here?
Am I just here to do what any other witness is doing?
Or is it my personal decision, my personal,
on the basis of my personal belief?
And I was really confronted with myself.
For the first time in my life,
conscientiously, I had the feeling
that I was doing something for Jehovah.
And that has strengthened my faith.
It was a turn point in my life.
We became engaged when Willy was in prison.
And because at that time,
the watchtower publications were banned in prison.
So I made hundred copies of the watchtower
and I sent them to him.
I sent her love letters
and she sent me copies of the watchtower.
When I was released from prison about two years later,
we married and then I could find a very well-paid job.
And we had a beautiful house.
We had a nice car or so.
And it was my wish that Frida would not have to work secularly.
And that was what was our aim.
The future was ours.
Shortly after our marriage,
we invited the circuit over here
to have dinner with us.
And during the meal,
he looked at us and he said,
you have to tell me something.
Why are you not pioneering?
That was a straight forward question.
We couldn't answer.
We didn't think about pioneering.
I really don't know why we were not pioneering.
As a young girl,
I always wanted to pioneer,
even become a missionary.
I wanted to pioneer then,
but I couldn't.
And now I could.
And I didn't do it.
At that time,
we were thinking that we already did what was right.
Besides being very jealous in the truth,
I tried to take care of my lovely wife as good as I could.
But was it really the best way to take care of her?
That same evening,
we prayed to Jehovah
and we promised him
that we would fully rely on him
according to Matthew 633.
And that's what we did.
That same week,
I resigned my job
and we cancelled the rent of our house.
And shortly thereafter,
we moved to a small apartment
and then we started a new life,
pioneering.
Of course, we made some sacrifices.
Our previous house had everything.
Now, a new apartment,
then we did not even have a shower.
But we knew that we have made the right choice.
Because from then on,
Jehovah was really providing for everything.
We enjoyed very much serving Jehovah together.
Four months later,
we were appointed as special pioneers.
And after that,
many other privileges followed.
We had the privilege to attend Gilead School.
He was invited without me,
of course,
and that was a sacrifice.
But later,
I had the privilege to join Welly
when he was visiting different branches over the world.
That was really a blessing.
Full-time service has given us
really a meaningful life.
It is a pleasure to realize
that we use our strength
to seek God's kingdom first.
We are so happy that someone helped us
to make the right choices
right after our marriage.
Jehovah has blessed us all the way.
Looking back on these 47 years of full-time service,
we feel that we have had a very rich spiritual life.
We are so happy that we invited a circuit
over here for dinner that day.